[MUSIC]
We have defined the knapsack problem and
we have decided to temporarily
focus on that special case where every
item has its size equal to its value.
Let us design an algorithm for
this special case.
This case seems easy.
We want to maximize the value
of what we take in.
How about just trying to take
the items by decreasing value,
starting with the most valuable item?
How good is that algorithm?
This is another version
of a greedy algorithm.
The greedy algorithm that takes
item by order of decreasing value.
Graphically the case when,
size equals value,
is the case when every item is
a square instead of just a rectangle.
And our algorithm is sort
the squares by decreasing size.
And then take it down one by one,
gradually, if they fit in the knapsack.
If the sum of their
heights is less than B.
Observe.
The total height is less than B for every
solution, including the optimal solution.
So, OPT is also less than B.
The optimal solution has
value equal to its height.
That is, at most B.
OPT is less than B.
That's the first observation.
We have seen in previous
lectures that one way to
analyze an approximation algorithm
is to relate up to some parameter.
Then relate our output
solution to that parameter.
So now, we need to look at our output and
compute it's value as a function of B.
Observe.
If we take the output and
we add any item that's been rejected.
It's been rejected because it did not fit.
Because the sum of the values
was greater than B.
We can assume that the output
has a least 1 item.
We can assume that in this picture,
where the items and the output are blue,
and one of the rejected items is red,
we can see that there's
at least one blue item.
Why?
Why, because if there were no blue items.
What would it mean?
It would mean that nothing
fits in their knapsack.
And then also OPT also would
put nothing in the knapsack.
And so, our output would be zero.
OPT would be also zero,
so just more optimal.
Observe that we can also assume
there's at least one red item.
There exists some item that does
not fit in the knapsack for
the solution that we are constructing.
Why not?
Well, if the knapsack contained every
item then of course it could be optimal.
How could it do better
than take everything?
So, we can assume that
the output has at least 1 item.
And the non-output has at least 1 item.
And then,
there's at least one red rectangle.
There's a bunch of blue rectangles.
The Output+1 item is greater than B.
Okay, so then think about the order
in which we took the items.
What was the first item
we put in the output?
The first item.
Look at it, it's big.
It's bigger than this one.
The first item in the output is bigger
than any item not in the output.
Why?
Proof by picture.
Because the first item is the largest
item that can fit in the knapsack.
So, the output plus the red
item is greater than B.
The first output item is
greater than the red item.
Therefore, combining,
we can deduce that the output
has value at least half of B,
at least B/2.
And now remember, output louder than B/2.
OPT less than the recall to B.
Combined, output larger than OPT/2.
There is a factor of 2.
We have proved the theorem!
In a special case where
the size is equal to the value,
this greedy algorithm
is a 2-approximation.
Obviously it's paradigm of time.
It's basically the time it takes to sort.
And it's correct.
It gives you something that
does fit in a knapsack.
Not good enough.
I'm not happy with this.
I want better than a 2-approximation.
Can we do better?
How can we do better?
This will be the object
of the next section.
So we have a seen 2-approximation for
the special case when the side
is equal to the value.
And in the next section,
we will try to develop something much
better than the 2-approximation.